SEFM’26 Artefact Evaluation Guidelines
The artefact evaluation (AE) differs according to the type of paper submitted:
– Regular papers may submit an accompanying artefact for evaluation by the
AE committee.
– Tool or artefact papers must submit an artefact that at least satisfies the
requirements for the functional badge (see 1 in tbl. 1). Papers not meeting
this clause are rejected.
Important dates.
– Artefact submission deadline: 22 July 2026.
– Artefact kick-the-tires - problem reports: 27 July 2026.
– Artefact kick-the-tires - author response deadline: 31 July 2026.
– Author notification: 7 September 2026.
All deadlines expire at 23:59 AoE (Anywhere on Earth).
The artefact and the accompanying evaluation instructions should be accessible from the URL already provided in the EasyChair submission form for the
paper.

1

Badge claims

Authors should indicate the EAPLS badges they intend to claim with justification why their artefact qualifies for the claimed badges. Tbl. 1 details the badges
available. Papers may claim up to two badges.
Example 1 (Claiming badges). We claim two badges (i) Artefacts Available
and (ii) Artefacts (Functional and) Reusable. The reasons why our tool
fulfils the requirements set out by the EAPLS scheme for are outlined below. ■

2

Submission format

When packaging their artefact for submission, authors should provide specific
scenarios describing how it can be concretely used. Authors can also consider
variations on those scenarios to showcase the robustness or reusability of their
artefact. Sec. 3 describes the template authors should follow when structuring
their AE submissions.
Every submitted artefact must include the following:
– The URL from where the artefact can be downloaded.
– A quick start guide explaining how the artefact environment is set up.

2

1 Available

To claim the available badge, authors must provide a link to a publicly accessible
repository that permanently hosts artefacts. If this is not possible at the time of
submission, authors should indicate the repository on which they intend to host the
artefact (e.g. Zenodo, Software Heritage). The hosting platform should not track the
identities of downloaders: using non-compliant hosting platforms is valid grounds for
outright artefact rejection.
2.1 Functional

2.2 (Functional and) Reusable

To claim the functional badge, the
submitted artefact should be reasonably documented and include evidence of proper validation. Authors
should identify all the individual outcomes in the paper, which must be reproducible through the artefact. Each
functional outcome should be numbered, F1 , . . . , Fn , and accompanied
by a short explanation that links that
outcome obtained via the artefact to
the one in the paper.

To claim the reusable badge, the submitted artefact should be of high
quality that exceeds the requirements
for the functional badge. Authors
should outline individual reusablity
claims, R1 , . . . , Rn , that demonstrate
how the artefact may be used in scenarios beyond those covered in the
paper. Each scenario should be presented as an example that AE reviewers can replicate.

Example 2 (Functional outcomes).
F1 Experiment 4 shows that our monitoring approach is efficient in terms of
the memory consumed.(Outcome) The
memory consumption printed on the
terminal by this experiment corresponds to rows 1-4 listed in Tbl.
3.(Link with paper)
■

OR

Example 3 (Reusability claims).
R1 Our first example shows how the
monitoring software detects invalid
handshake protocols besides the ones
studied in Sec. 4 of the paper.(Claim)
These instructions set-up the system
and launch the monitors, which flag a
protocol violation in step 4, after the
first event. . . (Replicable scenario)
■

Tbl. 1: EAPLS badges that can be claimed by artefact authors

SEFM’26 Artefact Evaluation Guidelines

3

The AE committee expects artefacts to be executable on major operating
systems (macOS, Linux, Windows). Authors should include both
– A Docker image or OVA/OVF virtual machine (VM) containing the artefact;
and
– A separate archive containing the artefact source files.
The Docker image or VM enables reviewers to execute and evaluate the artefact
without installing additional software on their machines. The source archive
allows reviewers who are familiar with the underlying language or platform to
run the artefact directly from source.

3

Evaluation instructions

The AE instructions should be attached as a post-bibliography appendix in the
original paper. It must detail the steps reviewers should follow to confirm the
functionality or reusability claims of tbl. 1. This appendix is reserved for the AE
procedure and will not be published with the camera-ready version of the paper.
We recommend the appendix format outlined in secs. A.1 to A.4.
A.1

Badge claims

Authors should state the EAPLS badges they intend to claim, motivating why
the submitted artefact qualifies for each badge. Tool papers must claim the
functional badge and meet its requirements. Refer to tbl. 1 for examples on how
to specify the functional outcomes and reusability claims. Functional outcomes
and reusability claims can be organised under these sub-headings.
Functional outcomes The following functional outcomes are expected.
F1 This outcome. . .
Reusability claims The following reusability claims are covered.
R1 This claim. . .

A.2

Quick start

This phase confirms whether the artefact and its environment are fully operational prior to the main evaluation. The quick start guide should consist of a
short sequence of sanity checks that reviewers execute. Ideally, authors provide
a script that automates these checks. Authors are advised to give a high-level
directory structure of their submitted artefact since this helps AE reviewers
familiarise themselves with the artefact.

4
tool/
monitoring/............................................Monitoring tool root
doc/ ................................................. API documentation
src/.............................................................Sources
test/..........................................................Unit tests
Makefile..................................Makefile for compiling the tool
examples/.......................................Reusability claims examples
Makefile ......................... Makefile for compiling the examples
.
.
..............................................Other directories, ignore
experiments/...............................Functionality outcomes examples
cowboy/.................Cowboy third-party application case study
token/........................Cowboy token server web application
.
.
.................................Other web applications, ignore
Makefile .............................. Makefile for testing Cowboy
.
.
..............................................Other directories, ignore
.
.
............................................Other directories and files, ignore

Fig. 1: Tool directory structure example

Example 4 (Directory structure). Fig. 1 describes the directory layout of our submitted artefact. The files used in secs. A.3 and A.4 are underlined. AE reviewers
may safely ignore the other directories.
■
The quick start guide aims to facilitate the kick-the-tires phase of the AE. At
this stage, AE reviewers may communicate with artefact authors to give early
feedback or ask for further instructions in case of difficulties.

A.3

Functional evaluation

This evaluation replicates the functional outcomes F1 , . . . , Fn listed in sec. A.1.
Authors should structure this appendix section as a sequence of steps AE reviewers follow to verify all the functional outcomes. Reference to individual functional
outcomes should be made by authors when arguing why or how each outcome
is met. Justification should be given whenever the results obtained through the
artefact differ from those in the paper.
Example 5 (Justifying difference in results). The rendered plot produced by experiment 5 (functional outcome F5 ) reflects the same trends of Fig. 7 in the
paper, albeit on a smaller scale. This difference between the artefact plot and
Fig. 7 results from the lower load we use for our artefact set-up to keep the
execution time reasonable, per the AE guidelines.
■

SEFM’26 Artefact Evaluation Guidelines

A.4

5

Reusability evaluation

This evaluation validates the reusability claims R1 , . . . , Rn identified in sec. A.1.
Authors should structure this section of the appendix as a sequence of steps
AE reviewers follow to explore the reusability of the submitted artefact. These
steps can (i) direct AE reviewers to inspect content packaged with the artefact
(e.g. documentation), (ii) give scenarios where the artefact may be reused (e.g.
imported as a library into other software), or (iii) follow instructions which
showcase how the artefact can be used out-of-the-box to tackle use cases besides
those given in the paper (e.g. a short tutorial with examples).
Example 6 (Reusing the artefact on other examples). Our main monitoring module accepts command line switches that enable the software to be used as a
stand-alone tool (reusability claim R2 ). This tutorial shows how an arbitrary
client-server system written in Erlang can be monitored by launching the monitoring module using the -standalone and -mfa switches as follows. . .
■

AE reviewers should be able to complete the evaluation in ≈ 4 hours. If
the evaluation relies on long-running experiments (e.g. to gather empirical data), the evaluation harness should provide a push-button method
for executing experiments with minimal intervention from AE reviewers
(e.g. using a script). Artefacts packaged as Docker images or OVA/OVF
virtual machines reduce the AE set-up overhead.

Last updated: July 2, 2026

